---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Software Engineering Aspirations
date: 2016-27-08
labels:
  - Engineering
---

As a young high school student, I was consistently fascinated with computers.  Motherboards, networking and even programming itself were so captivating.  I truly couldn't get enough of it.  Enveloped with curiosity, I began to fiddle with creating small pieces of code.  It began with the traditional "Hello world." and eventually evolved into a java project which aimed at teaching users how to read Japanese. This is the entire reason why I'm interested in software engineering.

In order to achieve such an aspiration, I hope to learn a bit about artificial intelligence.  As with large scale programs, accessing and storing petabytes of information, I would like to gain knowledge about how the program was developed, how long it would take one person to accomplish a similar task and how a computer takes previously gained input to produce answers to questions it hasn't been asked yet.  For example, when teaching an individual how to read Japanese, I'd like to begin with a small database of letters and words whcih has been translated to english.  Overtime, as the program inevitabely grows, I'd like it to update the information it contains automatically with little to no errors and provide users with answer that are around 90% percent on average.

Until I reach such concepts, I'd like to tackle each lesson presented by the class with high amounts of vigor and interest.  Thus, enabling me to learn material quicker and retain such information for real world applications.  I love to program and I'm truly excited to see what this subject has to offer. 
ijfapjwefiojwap
